Throughout this course you
have learned how to use data
to create models that help you solve
a variety of problems in business.
We started with models
to make predictions and
then moved to models that
prescribed solutions.
In the previous video, we introduced the
idea of merging two analytic technologies,
simulation and optimization.
By setting chance constraints,
we were able to account for
the uncertainty in some key input
data to an optimization model.
In this video,
we are going to build on that and
describe how simulation and
optimization can be fully integrated.
The process of developing
a simulation optimization model
is not very different from
what we have been doing.
It requires the definition of the three
main elements of an optimization model,
that is the decision variables,
constraints, and the objective function.
In addition, we need to identify
the sources uncertainty
that would be part of
the simulation model.
Let's consider the following situation.
An investor is considering 4
assets to invest a $100,000.
The annual return of each asset is
the major source of uncertainty in
the decision problem.
Through a statistical analysis of
historical data, the investors has found
probability distribution functions to
model the annual return of each asset.
The functions and the limits on
the amounts that she feels comfortable
investing in each assets
are shown in this statement.
The annual return of bonds
is assumed to be a uniform
distribution between 4% and 6%.
The returns of a stock follow a lognormal
distribution with mean of 11% and
a standard deviation of 4%.
The returns of mutual funds is considered
to follow a normal distribution
with mean of 8% and
standard deviation of 1%.
The money market is considered
to have a fixed return of 1%.
In addition,
the investor must deal with other risks,
such as changes in the economy or
major global events.
One way to account for such uncertainty
is to consider your risk factors for
each asset as shown in this table.
Negative values represent low risk and
values greater than 1 represent high risk.
The investor specifies a limit on
the total amount on risk per $1 invested.
Let's assume that in
the case of our investor,
she has set a risk
factor limit of 100,000.
The problem is to find how to invest
the $100,000 in order to maximize total
respective return by staying within the
investment limits set by the investor and
by not exceeding the total risk factor.
Locate and open the Excel
file Portfolio Optimization.
The top table in the spreadsheet
contains the data for
the four assets that
the investor is considering.
First we have the parameters of the
probability distribution functions, then
there are the investment limits for each
asset, and then we have the risk factors.
The model is in the bottom table.
As usual, the light gold cells
indicate the decision variables.
In this case the decisions are the amounts
to be invested in each asset.
The total in this column is
the sum of all the investments,
which needs to be less than or
equal to $100,000.
The risk for each asset is the product of
the risk factor and the amount invested.
The total risk must be less than or
equal to a 100,000.
The return for the first three
assets is a random variable.
As we have done in all our models,
these uncertain cells are shown in green.
They contain the probability distribution
functions, a uniform distribution for
bonds, a lognormal distribution for
stocks, and a normal distribution for
mutual funds.
The value column contains
the return value in dollars.
The sum of this column is the total
return value that we're maximizing.
We use light orange for
the total value cell to indicate that this
is both the output of the simulation and
also the objective function value for
the optimization.
Click on the ASP tab to access
the Solver model panel.
The optimization model
consists of maximizing E14,
which is the total value of the returns.
The decision variables are the investment
locations in B10 to B13.
There are two constraints, one for
the total amount invested and one for
the total risk.
In this simulation model,
we have the uncertainty variables
of the annual returns
in cells D10 to D12 and
we have the uncertainty
output function E14.
This is the solution that ASP found for
this problem.
This visible solution meets all
the criteria specified by the investor.
The value in E14 is not expected return,
it is
just one trial of the simulation using
the values of the decision variables.
To find out more about the performance
of this portfolio, double click on E14.
The expected return of this
portfolio is estimated to be $6352.
The frequency of this tuition can be
used to estimate probabilities that
the portfolio achieves some
desired return levels.
For example,
the simulation predicts that there is
a 9.96% probability that
the return will be $8,000 or more.
Simulation optimization is one of the most
sophisticated tools in data analytics for
business.
It allows you to create models that
include many of the complexities
of business decisions.
In many ways, these models can be
considered to be at the highest level
of the analytical process.
With this, we conclude our course on
data analytics for decision making.
I hope that this course has given
you insights in how to use data to
create models that can help
businesses make better decisions.